Development Journal
2-6-15
	This week I created the git hub repository for Smart Door. I also created the Development Journal and am
creating the first entry. The read me for the repository was edited to describe what this project is about and what
it will do. I also did research into what it would take to send an email or notification to someone to alert them. 
I found out that java has an api that can be implemented called javax.mail and javax.mail.internet that adds in
methods that can be used to send emails. The email has to have a host server though to be sent from so I will need
to figure that out as well. I will most likely have the email be sent to the owner of the smart door so that they 
can get instant notification via email on their devices if a door or window is not in it's correct state.
2-13-15
	This week I worked with Nate, my adult mentor, who is helping me learn how to interact with the hardware as
well as helping me acquire the necassary sensors and other hardware, to better understand what my goals are for this
project. He also showed my the program that I will be using to program the PLC that will be running my code. I will
be using Lenze's PLC Designer 3.8 software, using ladder logic with a codys based system. He also spent a few hours
with me teaching me the basics of PLC Designer so that I can get started working myself to create the code. We got
the code to recognize when a sensos was open or closed to keep track of the door's state, open and closed. One idea 
we were working on trying to figure out how to do was keep track of how many people are inside of a room, and if 
there is no one in the room to lock the door after a delay.
2-20-15
	This week I worked on designing an API to better understand what logic needs to go behind every function of my
design and what variables are going to be needed for every method. I was working on figuring out how to keep track of
people exiting and entering. I am going to use a sensor in front of the door to the room and also inside the room by
the door so that when someone walks in they trip one sensor and then the other sensor, and depending on the order they 
are tripped I will be able to tell if someone is entering or exitin a room and keep track of how many people are inside
of a room. I am still trying to figure out how to do this inside of PLC Designer and am trying to use rising edge and
falling edges of the sensors so that I can recognize which one is bein tripped when. I also got code that allows me to 
track the current state of the door, opened/closed and locked/unlocked.
2-27-15
	This week I worked with Nate to further develope the coding side of this project as well as getting a test
 system set up for me to be able to run my code. I got a plc with a single In and Out slice for sensors as well as
 a button that I can use to act as every sensor and input I will have in the future. I used this to help run and
 test my code and get it to actually work. We relized that I don't have the hardware easily available to keep track
 of people going in and out of a door so I decided that that aspect of this system will mostly likely have to not
 be done. I also got the code to recognize multiple alarms if they are already in the system that I can take an input
 off of and change the doors state depending on what is happening. Another feature that is being worked on is getting
 a command that puts the doors into an end of day state that locks all doors and sets alarms if one of those doors is
 oppened without the right authorization.
3-6-15
	This week I worked on developing code that allowed someone to access a door if need be after they have all
 been locked for the end of the day, and not set off an alarm. For this I am planning on having some sort of keypad
 with a code that allows the person to type in a code to unlock the door. My program will keep track that the door
 is unlocked due to that code being entered and when the code is input again the door will be locked back up. I am
 having some slight issues with this though due to having to use the same input to do both lock and unlock of the
 system. I am trying to work out a way to user a counter of some sort or delays in PLC designer to help enable this 
functionality of the program. I also finished up the first delevirable goal to recognize doors states.
3-13-15
	This started looking into some of the other ladder blocks to see if I would be able to integrate an array 
of doors instead of only one. I found out that I will probably need to re-write my code so that I have a frame for
a single door and then use other code to make multiple of doors filling in the frame where needed. I also found out
that when I am taking sensor inputs I could use the rising edge or falling edge of the sensor. I might be able to use
this in a way for the key pad input and try to configure it so that when the keypad input is first put in the signal stays
on until it is input a second time and then recognize the rising edge of the signal and unlock the door and then the
falling edge of the signal and close the door back up afterwards. I haven't been able to fully test this yet.
3-20-15
	This week I implemented ways to better display what state all of the variables are in so that I can use it for
 demonstration. I added methods that will light up lights whenever a variable is on or off so that I can easily see what
 is going on with the program just by looking at it instead of trying to look at the small little lights on the PLC it
 self. I don't have lights yet to use to show this but I am working on getting them so that I can show this. I also
 worked more on getting the keypad input done but I am still stumped as to what to do for that. I am going to continue
 trying to get this keypad to work, but I also need to start looking into how I am going to send messages out more so
 that I can get that going.
4-3-15
	This week I started to look into sending out messages whenever I need to to alert the user. I started to look
 into sending out sms text messages, but for that I would need to have a device on my controller that could do it,
 which is kind of expensive, as well as needing a data plan for that device top be able to send messages. So instead
 I am going to try and use email to alert the user since all that takes is internet and the user can still get instant
 notifications. Next time I am able to meet with Nate I am going to discuss with him about what I need to have to be
 able to send out emails through my PLC. I don't know for sure if I would use a wireless internet or if I would have
 to tether myself with an ethernet cable, which might make things a little bit harder.
4-10-15
	This week I worked on developing my elevator pitch so that I could sell my product to Mr. Schreiber. I decided
 that having statistics about home break-ins would be a good way to get the point accross that they happen quite often
 and that a new system is needed to protect homes. Every 13 seconds a home break in happens and most happen while
 people are at work. So if they had notifications about it they can react quicker. I also worked more on developing
 the notification system and trying to figure out how to do that. Nate was out of town all week though so I wasn't able
 to get with him to figure out what device I will need to use. I plan on meeting with him this weekend to help my project
 keep moving forward.
4-17-15
	This week I developed most of my test panel so that I can better demonstrate how my program works. I decided to
just have an aluminum panel with buttons and lights on it so that people can see a physical change whenever something
happens. I have 7 buttons that represent a master lock, master unlock, Alarm reset, End of day, start of day, door code
input, and a fire alarm. I also have a 2 state switch that represents the door itself and then another capacitive button
that signifies someone opening the door from the inside of the building rather than the outside. I also figured out a way
to implement wireless signals. I am using a wireless gateway and node from Banner just to be able to send a signal to a
light and sounder to represent a text. I could have sent a text message if I would have gotten a data plan, but that would
have cost more money. When any alarm goes off it send it to the gateway and the node lights up lights or sounds an alarm.